{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}}
\fs24\b StudySync — Short Documentation\b0\par
\par
\b Overview\b0\par
StudySync is a lightweight single-page web application to help students organize study resources and tasks. It focuses on simplicity, accessibility, and cross-platform availability via Progressive Web App (PWA) features so users can add it to their device home screen.\par
\par
\b Key Features\b0\par
- Resource management: add, edit, and remove study items.\par
- Task lists and local JSON export/import.\par
- Accessibility controls: adjustable text size, reduced motion, and high-contrast accessibility mode.\par
- PWA support: `manifest.json`, service worker (`sw.js`), and app icons for installable experience.\par
\par
\b Implementation & Running\b0\par
- Core files: `index.html` (UI), `js/app.js` (logic), `manifest.json`, `sw.js`, and `icons/`.\par
- No backend; static site served over HTTPS or localhost. To preview locally run:\par
  python3 -m http.server 8000\par
  Then open http://127.0.0.1:8000/ in your browser. Note: full PWA install prompts require HTTPS or localhost.\par
\par
\b PWA & Installation\b0\par
- The app attempts the `beforeinstallprompt` flow on supporting browsers (Chrome/Android).\par
- On iOS, users must use Safari → Share → Add to Home Screen; the app shows instructions when needed.\par
- Desktop fallback: the app can generate a shortcut file (`.url`, `.webloc`, or `.desktop`) for manual addition.\par
\par
\page
\b Accessibility & HCI Principles\b0\par
Below are succinct mappings you can use in an exam answer. Cite these as concise evidence of HCI-aligned design.\par
\par
\b Visibility of System Status\b0\par
- Feedback via toast notifications (actions like export, install) keeps users informed.\par
\par
\b Match with the Real World\b0\par
- Familiar labels and icons (download, add) and straightforward language reduce cognitive load.\par
\par
\b User Control and Freedom\b0\par
- Users can freely add/edit/remove resources and toggle accessibility options at any time.\par
\par
\b Consistency and Standards\b0\par
- Uses standard web patterns and PWA APIs; consistent button placement and labeling across views.\par
\par
\b Error Prevention and Recovery\b0\par
- Clear feedback after actions helps users detect issues; destructive operations require deliberate action.\par
\par
\b Recognition rather than Recall\b0\par
- Visible controls with icons and labels reduce memory load; important functions are discoverable.\par
\par
\b Flexibility and Efficiency\b0\par
- PWA install reduces steps to open the app; export allows quick data transfer.\par
\par
\b Accessibility (Universal Design)\b0\par
- Direct toggles for text size, motion reduction, and contrast support diverse needs; ARIA and semantic HTML improve screen reader support.\par
\par
\b Evaluation Plan (brief)\b0\par
- Heuristic evaluation against Nielsen's heuristics.\par
- Cognitive walkthroughs for key tasks (add resource, export, install).\par
- Small-scale usability test (5–8 users) measuring success rate and satisfaction.\par
\par
\b Conclusion\b0\par
StudySync is designed to be simple, accessible, and installable. For your exam emphasize how the app applies HCI principles (visibility, feedback, consistency, accessibility) and the planned evaluation methods.\par
\par
\b Contact\b0\par
Repository: https://github.com/NaimaGulele/StudySync\par
}
